W-19838735-path-normalization-v3-duke (#425)
mulesoft/docs-monitoring: modules/ROOT/pages/_partials/include-path-normalization.adoc

>  Proper path normalization helps to ensure correct counting of requests to these endpoints in Runtime Manager and Anypoint Monitoring dashboards. Normalization enables charts in these dashboards to ignore insignificant differences, typically from dynamic variables, between URLs that make requests to the same endpoint. 

Author: ```suggestion
Proper path normalization helps to ensure correct counting of requests to inbound HTTP endpoints in Runtime Manager and Anypoint Monitoring dashboards. Normalization enables charts in these dashboards to ignore insignificant differences, typically from dynamic variables, between URLs that make requests to the same endpoint. 
```

For inbound HTTP endpoints, you can rely on the <<normalization-default, default path normalization>> or configure a <<normalization-custom, custom normalization pattern>> with the `anypoint.platform.config.analytics.endpoint.patterns` property.

Supported deployment types:

* CloudHub
* CloudHub 2.0
* Hybrid
* Runtime Fabric

[[normalization-default]]
=== Default Path Normalization

The default path normalization process follows these substitution patterns for:

* Digits: Replace any part of the path containing a digit with `X`. For example, `/booking/abc123/pax/A1B2C4` becomes `/booking/X/pax/X`.

> * Uppercase segments: Replace any part of the path containing uppercase characters with `X`. For example, `/booking/ABC/pax/A1B2C4` becomes `/booking/X/pax/X`.

Author: ```suggestion
* Uppercase segments: Replace any part of the path containing uppercase characters but no lower case characters with `X`. For example, `/booking/ABC/pax/A1B2C4` becomes `/booking/X/pax/X`.
```

> * Uppercase segments: Replace any part of the path containing completely uppercase characters with `X`. For example, `/booking/ABC/pax/A1B2C4` becomes `/booking/X/pax/X`.

Author: ```suggestion
* Uppercase segments: Replace any part of the path containing uppercase characters with `X`. For example, `/booking/ABC/pax/A1B2C4` becomes `/booking/X/pax/X`.
```

> Any parts that don't contain digits nor all uppercase characters remain the same. For example, `/booking/abc123/pax/PAisdf` remains `/booking/X/pax/PAisdf`.

Author: ```suggestion
Any parts that don't contain digits nor uppercase characters remain the same. For example, `/booking/abc123/pax/PAisdf` remains `/booking/X/pax/PAisdf`.
```

> Parts that don't contain digits or upper case characters remain the same. For example, `/booking/abc123/pax/PAisdf` remains `/booking/X/pax/PAisdf`.

Author: ```suggestion
Parts that don't contain digits or that contain a mix of upper case and lower case characters remain the same. For example, `/booking/abc123/pax/PAisdf` remains `/booking/X/pax/PAisdf`.
```

> Any parts that don't contain digits nor uppercase characters remain the same. For example, `/booking/abc123/pax/PAisdf` remains `/booking/X/pax/PAisdf`.

Author: ```suggestion
Parts that don't contain digits or that contain lower case characters remain the same. For example, `/booking/abc123/pax/PAisdf` remains `/booking/X/pax/PAisdf`.
```

> Parts that don't contain digits or that contain lower case characters remain the same. For example, `/booking/abc123/pax/PAisdf` remains `/booking/X/pax/PAisdf`.

Author: ```suggestion
Parts that don't contain digits or upper case characters remain the same. For example, `/booking/abc123/pax/PAisdf` remains `/booking/X/pax/PAisdf`.
```

> Parts that don't contain digits or that contain a mix of upper case and lower case characters remain the same. For example, `/booking/abc123/pax/PAisdf` remains `/booking/X/pax/PAisdf`.

Author: ```suggestion
Parts that contain a mix of upper case and lower case characters remain the same. For example, `/booking/abc123/pax/PAisdf` remains `/booking/X/pax/PAisdf`.
```

[[normalization-custom]]
=== Configure a Custom Path Normalization Pattern

> To override the default behavior, you can configure `anypoint.platform.config.analytics.endpoint.patterns` on a running Mule app in Runtime Manager or when deploying a new application to CloudHub or CloudHub 2.0: 

Reviewer: can we remove `to CloudHub or CloudHub 2.0` as setting this property is same across all the deployment types

Author: done

> To override the default behavior, you can configure `anypoint.platform.config.analytics.endpoint.patterns` on a running Mule app in Runtime Manager or when deploying a new application to CloudHub or CloudHub 2.0: 

Author: ```suggestion
To override the default behavior, you can configure `anypoint.platform.config.analytics.endpoint.patterns` on a running Mule app in Runtime Manager or when deploying a new application: 
```
